Add EIP: Incentivize Access List Provisioning (#8563)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-7707.md

---
eip: 7707
title: Incentivize Access List Provisioning

> description: This EIP proposes updating gas cost parameters for access lists to incentivise their use and improve transaction execution efficiency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Updates gas cost parameters for access lists to incentivise their use and improve transaction execution efficiency.
```

Removed a bit of fluff.

author: Ben Adams (@benaadams), Oleg Iakushkin (@OlegJakushkin)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-7707-align-incentives-for-access-list-provisioning/20025
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: Core
created: 2024-05-12
requires: 2930
---

## Abstract

This EIP reduces the gas cost of access list data, incentivizing the inclusion of complete and valid access lists in transactions to improve data load efficiency for execution layer clients.

## Motivation

While [EIP-2930](./eip-2930.md) introduced `accessLists` as a mechanism for `SLOAD`
pre-warming  to reduce gas costs by informing the EVM upfront about which storage slots a transaction will access,
the practical use is limited and uncommon due to the savings versus penalties involved. In order to break even for

> each address included `24 storage keys` are required per address, and there is a `100 gas` saving per key at `25+`; 

Reviewer: Only use backticks for inline code.

in contrast the penalty for including an unused key is `1900 gas`, so break-even where one key is unused is `43 keys`.\

> \

Reviewer 2: can we remove these delimiters?

---
eip: 7707
title: Incentivize Access List Provisioning
description: This EIP proposes updating gas cost parameters for access lists to incentivise their use and improve transaction execution efficiency.
author: Ben Adams (@benaadams), Oleg Iakushkin (@OlegJakushkin)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-7707-align-incentives-for-access-list-provisioning/20025
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: Core
created: 2024-05-12
requires: 2930
---

## Abstract

To facilitate future developments of parallel data load, we need to
encourage as many transactions as possible that contain as complete and

> valid access lists. Current access list pricing does not sufficiently incentivize their inclusion, and this EIP aims to address this gap.

Reviewer 3: Abstract should contain a short human-readable description of the solution, not of the problem.  Motivation is where you describe the problem.

Reviewer 3: Example for this EIP: "Reduces gas cost for storage reads from `a` and `b` to `c` and `d` when an access list is provided."

Author: Updated, please take a look.
